Okay.
They used to pull what they all called Snuggies on bus two, and that got out of hand.
I had to stop that.
I remember, I forget what town we were in.
But we were going from one town to another.
It was one of these bus rocking incidences.
And I stopped the first bus.
Anyway, I went back to the second bus.
And I got on the bus.
And there they all were in the very, crammed in the very back of the bus with not a stitch of clothing on.
And I mean, I couldn't help it.
I just started laughing.
Because I was ready to really chew on somebody.
And I just laughed and turned around and walked back and got on the bus and we went on.
But they never let me forget that.
Never, never, never.
It was fun.
Do you remember in the early years ever singing any song which Aggie audience thought for some reason was not maroon enough?
No, but one time in, it was Temple.
We were singing, where have all the flowers gone?
And of course, that's an anti-war song.
Well, man, in the middle of the performance, and this had never happened.
This was in like the late 60s, maybe.
But this man got up and stormed out of the office, out of the audience.
And the next day, when we got back from tour, I had a letter in my office.
And he chewed me out one side and down the other.
Really.
And I found out he was a colonel.
He was a retired colonel.
And he thought that we were anti-war, anti-patriotism, and blah, blah, blah.
God after it.
And of course, our whole image in my feeling was to worship God, worship the country, and worship your fellow man.
And we couldn't do that.
If we couldn't display that, if we couldn't show that, then we were not doing something right.
Did anyone either early years or later years ever complain about seeing cadets as a group from a public university singing religious music?
No, no.
That was always in the back of my mind, you know, somebody's going to do that.
Well, I mean, it got to the point in some years where it was almost illegitimate to sing Christmas carols.
But no, that never happened.
Never happened.
In fact, I mean, we got probably hundreds of letters praising the fact that we did.
We didn't overdo it.
We didn't.
We didn't jam it down anybody's throat.
And usually the sacred songs that we sang, the religious songs that we sang, were kind of upbeat.
You know, they were spirituals maybe with a beat or a kind of jazzed up version of Amazing Grace.
It wasn't just pure European heavy music.
And we deliberately looked for things like that.
Was there, when you arrived, was there a kind of a singing cadet repertoire of songs that was kind of standard?
Yeah, of course, that's one thing.
The whole time I was here, consolidated, and we'd have the cadets over at the high school in the auditorium for assemblies every year.
But they came and they always sang the same songs.
Bill never, Bill was actually more interested, and I'm not being derogatory here,
But Bill was more interested in the Aggieland Dance Band than he was because he was a trumpet player than he was the singing cadets.
And they'd sing the same songs every year, every year.
And I'd say, you know, what a shame.
What a waste of talent, you know.
But one of the traditional, well, school songs were always traditional.
But one of the songs they sang before I came was Nothing Like a Dane, which we still do.
But the arrangement we do now is one that was done especially for us at one of the Miss Teenage America performances in Fort Worth.
The arranger did it so we could do it with orchestra.
And that's the one we still use today.
Let's see.
Let's go back to this man, Wayne Stark.
Yep.
What was it like working with him?
It was great.
He was a very moody man in some ways.
I mean, he was up and down.
He had terrific battles trying to get any money for anything.
I mean, he was terrible, as we all did in student activities in those days.
And it was like, well, do the best you can.
We just don't have any funds to help you, blah, blah, blah.
But we'll get some, blah, blah, blah.
And five years later, we still hadn't gotten any.
He was a hard, hard worker, Wayne was.
He was always...
I don't mean this derogatorily, but he was always conniving.
He was always trying to find ways to overcome this lack of money and create new programs, new ideas.
He loved the student body.
And he loved A&M, of course.
And he believed in them.
He believed in the students.
And we'd have those leadership conferences, which I was advisor to a couple of years.
And he knew that those kids could be, not just because of their core training,
But they could be super leaders if we'd let them, you know.
And sometimes we had to make them do that.
But he was a special man, very special.
Now, those of us over on the faculty side thought that he was a kind of a self-appointed apostle
for the for arts and music on the campus he was he was and he felt that he felt that responsibility and it was a responsibility to him it wasn't just a fly-by-night kind of thing I mean he felt that A&M must have that and and he was going to do whatever it took to get it you know he was that way now y'all were part of what today would be called student affairs
Right.
And reported to Dean Hannigan.
Describe his relation to the seeing cadets.
Well, oh, seeing cadets.
He liked us.
Again, it was a financial thing.
I mean, we we had to have money to travel.
He had to have money to replace uniforms as they were worn out or torn or whatever.
And they were expensive.
And he tried, but he couldn't make any progress either, really.
I mean, his budget, I would guess, was something less than probably a third of what it is now.
It was really unreal.
But everybody we felt expected us to go on doing what we're doing and do it better and do it bigger and blah, blah, blah.
As advisor to Town Hall, I mean, there were years where we almost went out of business because we didn't have enough income.
And those shows in those days, I mean, Fred Waring, The Four Freshmen, The Brothers Four,
You know, they were expensive groups then.
Anyway, no, Jim Hennigan was a super guy and very helpful in many ways.
Defended us many times.
Did any administrator ever attempt to second guess your program in terms of what you sang and did not sing?
No.
I never had anyone tell me what to sing or what not to sing, ever.
One incident though, in our early years when we were still performing in Guyon Hall, during intermission,
We had student wives and faculty wives at that time.
And we had formed a group called Six Little Girls in Blue, a sextet, a girl sextet.
And they were good.
They were good.
So one year at our Syncadet Spring concert, during an admission, I had them sing three songs.
Well, the next morning, Monday, President Ryder was on my phone saying,
I don't know how you're going to do it, but you get out of that as quick as possible and don't ever do it again, meaning featuring girls.
And this was before he changed his mind.
I mean, boy, I almost lost my job because of the, and Carolyn Adair was one of those people, one of those girls.
And you don't know whether this was his idea or someone said it to him.
I don't know.
I never knew.
But I knew it scared the dickens out of me.
It must have been like 61 or 62.
I was still new.
And I didn't dream that anyone would feel that way.
I thought, gee, isn't this nice to have these six girls faculty-wise sing and blah, blah, blah.
Oh.
In those early years... That's the only time that happened, though.
On campus, where did you most often perform physically?
What was the location?
In the 60s?
Well, we did All Faiths Chapel.
We did it in the YMCA.
We did an MSC, of course.
Yeah.
Guyon?
Yes.
That's where we had a spring concert.
Okay.
Until they tore it down.
And then we moved our rehearsal area, as I said we were in the old music hall at the end of G Raleigh.
And they condemned it three times, four times.
Because we'd have rehearsals upstairs with the grand piano up there and the risers and the guys and we'd get a song going that was really kind of bouncy and we'd all start
bouncing with the music, and the floor would move six inches up and down.
Anyway, we finally got out of there and moved from there into G. Raleigh White.
They built a special rehearsal room for us in what is now, I think, one of the physical labs there on the first floor facing the Coldest building.
And that's where I taught my classes as well, my music appreciation classes.
Now, those music appreciation classes, in what department were they classified?
Philosophy and Humanities.
I never really understood that, but I was glad to do it, because I enjoyed that.
It was actually a class in learning how to appreciate
all kinds of music, but mainly change the country cowboy image into something that they could learn to like beyond that.
And of course we listened to a lot of, had a good sound system, and we listened to a lot of music.
And that's one of the reasons I started the music program in the browsing library at the Memorial Student Center.
So they could have a place to go listen to what we had listened to in class.
Let's see.
Do you have any more Rudder stories?
No.
I remember, of course, this office then was in the assistance administration building, facing Highway 6.
And I remember going there several times when we were trying to get money for a trip.
And he was always very cordial, always very nice.
Of course, as I say, I was directing the music at A&M Methodist Church, and every Sunday morning there sat the general and the general's wife and the kids in the second pew on the right-hand side.
That was their pew.
And I knew the kids and I knew Mrs. Rudder through teaching them, teaching the kids, Bobby, A&M.
Excuse me.
I had Anne in class in history survey course the summer after she graduated and consolidated high school before she went west to Utah.
She was a doll.
She still is.
Yes, she's splendid.
Let's see, did the cadets sing at Mr. Rudder's memorial service?
Yes.
And we sang at all the inaugural of the new presidents.
Were there any special memories you have of that memorial service?
No, I just know that it was very solemn.
Everyone was in a kind of shock.
It was almost, at that time, it was almost as bad as the bonfire disaster.
I mean, everyone felt that way.
I remember seeing LBJ and Lady Bird and Governor Shivers.
Almost every important Texan that I knew was there.
For the first time, I'd never seen any of them.
Right, right.
Did, all right, within a year, Jack Williams got here.
Right.
Did you have any?
He was very positive for the St.
Cadets.
We'd drop in on rehearsals from time to time.
Nice gentleman.
Good sense of humor.
Liked him.
liked us i mean we we felt comfortable and and we always felt and again we're still fighting budgets we're all the time but we always felt with him uh we something would happen you know that we'd get something done and he did he helped us make one of our trips um but we did his inaugural as well
We did all the president's inaugurations, one way or another.
As you remember your budget in the 60s and 70s, it was paid your salary, and what else?
And the accompanist's salary.
And the accompanist.
June Bearing.
Was that a full-time or part-time?
It was part-time, June's was.
Eventually it became full-time, just so she could get benefits.
What else did it provide?
The budget?
Oh, uniform repair and maintenance, purchase of music, which in the early days, I could buy a choral octavo, a one sheet of music for 12 cents, 15 cents.
Now it's $2.75 a copy.
You know, it's ridiculous.
It's unreal.
I'd say it paid also travel budget?
Yeah, but remember in the early days, we didn't really travel that much.
And when we did, we usually traveled on just one bus in those days.
But when we got to a membership of about 60, 70, it would vary, we had to have two buses.
And we used to do our tours, our long tours, during spring break.
But it got to the point where so many profs were scheduling exams or papers due at the end of spring break that we had to stop that.
I mean, it was just too much on the guys.
So we switched to going in between semesters.
And so the guys would come back two weeks early from Christmas vacation.
We'd rehearse for a week and then travel for 10 days.
And then come back, get back on Sunday, and they start class on Monday.
When things began in the fall, for a new prospective member of Seen Cadets, there were auditions.
How quickly did they know whether they were accepted or not?
Within a week.
Because it took that long to do all the auditions.
All right.
I mean, we do, we could only do so many during the time allotted because they had classes and we had to work around all that.
But usually within a week, they would know.
As the enrollment grew, did the number of auditions?
Yeah, sure did.
We'd audition, or say back in,
Oh, 70 to 75, 1975.
We'd audition sometimes as many as 200 young men to fill 20 slots.
So you're saying 10 to 1?
Yeah, about that.
It varied from year to year, of course, and it was considerably different second semester auditions.
There'd be fewer of them.
And we'd have fewer slots to fill, too.
We usually have to fill six or seven slots.
Once they got a positive response to their audition, then their, I'll call it hazing, as they began, what was the routine that they went through as a new member of the
Well, we had what we called a red book.
We also had a handbook that we gave each new buffo.
They were telling the rules and regulations of this organization.
But we had a red book that had all the school songs in it.
And that was the first thing they had to do, learn school songs.
And that would be one of the things some of the old men would have them do as a qualifying answer, a cush question.
They'd have to recite or sing one of the school songs, like the second verse and things like that.
They'd try to sneak around it.
Once they started rehearsals,
which would be like probably a week after their acceptance, they knew they were probationary members.
And if they couldn't fulfill the Bufo requirements of like getting every man's signature, learning what they were supposed to learn, memorize what they were supposed to memorize, they could be dropped.
Rarely did we do that.
Most of them took it so seriously I was afraid they were going to flunk out of school.
I really never did understand the whole time I was there how they could do as much as we had to do and still stay in school, but they did, most of them.
I mean, we had some that flunked out, but if their grades went down, they had to drop out of the group and they could come back in
if they could prove they've you know with their record record they would improve it did you have a gpa minimum 2.5 2.5 okay and was it normal for a young man who qualified as a freshman to remain four years
Three to four.
Again, it depended on their program.
Of course, a lot of the engineers were five-year students.
Vet students were longer.
But most of them, yeah, if they maintained the grades, they stayed.
I had one guy.
uh jim kane who was in the single that's 18 semesters from his freshman year through his doctor uh you're saying phd doctor yeah was that as far as you know the record that yes that is the record as far as i know who is jim where's jim today executive now with uh i think it's with
Not Phillips gasoline, but the British Phillips company.
Oh BP Amoco, I believe.
Okay.
Anyway, he's in Houston and I mean one of the first good tenors I had and he sang oh happy day.
That was his which were in terms of the different Voice specialties that you needed which was the hardest to find in the early days first tenors and
Now I understand its basis.
And it's because of the society.
The kids today are hearing all this screaming, yelling, rock!
And so they're becoming tenors.
But it's hard to find a good solid bass like Albert Laredo, you know, or Fred McClure.
Fred sang second tenor for us.
That's an interesting story if you have time.
Oh, yes.
We want to talk about Fred.
When he came in the group, we had had a few blacks audition, but most of them didn't make it.
Well, none of them made it until Fred came along.
Fred is the first black member of the singing cadet?
Yeah.
And of course, all the guys knew that this black guy was going to be a member of the singing cadet.
So in those days, our rehearsal chairs were white leatherette.
And we had moved into the new section in MSC, 1974.
But our chairs were all white leatherette.
So we knew where he was going to be seated.
So the guys draped his chair in black, you know, one black chair and all these white seats.
And everybody called him the raisin and the rice pudding.
And he just loved it.
And we loved him.
I mean, he I was reading through some letters I had for me last night.
I sang at his wedding.
This wonderful guy.
Why was Fred such a splendid role model as the first outstanding black student leader at Texas A&M?
I think, well, he certainly owes it to his parents, number one, I think.
But his work and experience with FFA really toned him up.
I mean, really toned him.
He became a marvelous speaker and a kind and generous guy, a very compassionate person.
And a tireless sense of humor.
Oh, yes.
And all kinds of humor.
We hear about, we say, Aggies tell more Aggie jokes than anybody else.
Well Fred told more black jokes than anybody else.
He was just hilarious, just wonderful.
And we all loved it had hated to lose him when he came student body president.
We had to lose him, of course.
All right.
So he was in two years.
He was into.
OK.
Let's see.
Oh, back to.
And new members getting in and so forth.
Did you ever encounter seeing cadets physically hazing a new member?
Paddles or anything like that?
No, no, no, no.
No paddles.
But I remember there used to be, after auditions, there used to be what we called a bufo party.
And five of the singing cadets lived in what used to be
the red lighthouse south of College Station on Highway 6.
We called it the Slut Hut.
It was a, quote, massage parlor.
The girls moved out.
The city closed them down.
And five of my singadets moved in there.
So that became the singadet house, you know.
Well, that's where they had the party, UFO party.
Well...
During the, quote, initiation exercises, they had the guys stripped down, they were still in their underwear and shoes, but they had to roll on the ground in this chicken house that had been, it had been a chicken house out back, and it was still covered with chicken manure everywhere.
Well, I got wind of that later, and so did, I think, General Hannigan.
Colonel Hannigan.
Anyway, we stopped that very quick.
To my knowledge, we never had any paddling.
We had push-ups.
Give me ten, give me twenty, you know, whatever.
But to my knowledge, and of course as I was telling you the snuggies on the bus, on the bus tours we'd have the Bufos all crammed into the on-bus laboratory in the back of the bus.
You know ten of them, fifteen of them.
But we never, to my knowledge really and truly, we never had paddling.
And we really got kind of incensed when people kept telling us the fact that they were wearing that key was a form of hazing.
Well, we didn't think of it as hazing.
We thought of it as good PR and good brotherhood, good fellowship program.
But I think Dr. Adair headed up that program to get rid of those keys.
And I don't know if I think they're still trying to get rid of them.
I hope they never do.
Because it's a thing of pride.
All these guys who had them, have them hanging in their homes.
I mean, it's a symbol of pride.
Did alcohol ever become a problem in a scene cadet activity?
Yes, but we stopped that almost immediately.
But every year, everywhere we'd go on tour, particularly, the guys would stay in host homes.
Well, I had a couple of them.
overly imbibe in a host home.
And the host was just trying to make them feel comfortable at home, you know, unloading them up.
And these kids were 17 years old, 18 years old.
So we stopped that.
We passed a rule saying you may have one drink, no more.
But we never got into fist fights or anything.
Of course, the only time I ever, the guys took care of those problems.
The only time I ever interfered in any disciplinary measure was if it were on a moral basis, morals basis.
Stealing, lying, cheating, homosexuality.
We fought that, and a lot of people still don't understand why we fought the homosexual thing so badly, so hard.
But in my mind, we were going out representing the university, staying in people's homes, and if one guy, just one guy, put the move on some
host kids or something, that would destroy the scene.
It would be the end.
So we were very careful about that.
I missed some.
I know that I did.
But they behaved themselves.
They became some of the very sharp people, and most of them are.
Did you ever have to suspend, kick some out?
Just one.
I mean, for that purpose, for that reason.
No, I've kicked guys out, usually, they kick themselves out, actually, by not coming to rehearsals, by skipping rehearsals, not being on time, missing the bus.
In fact, I remember one young man, we put off the bus in Brady, Texas,
Run her hometown.
And it was snowing.
We were on a January tour.
And we put him off the bus.
He said, get home, boy.
Best way you know how.
He was just being undisciplined on bus two.